---
layout: post
title: How to mirror a subversion repository on GitHub
description: How to setup and maintain a mirror of a subversion repository on GitHub.
categories:
  - automation
  - git
  - how-tos
  - tips
keywords:
  - automation
  - cron
  - git
  - git-svn
  - github
  - how to
  - mirror
  - repository
  - script
  - subversion
  - svn
---
If you use [GitHub](http://github.com/), you may know that they provide an easy way to import an
existing [subversion](http://subversion.apache.org/) repository. However, they don't provide a way
to _mirror_ a subversion repository on GitHub and keep it in sync with the original. When I did this
for the first time, it took me awhile to figure it out, but once I did, I was surprised how easy it
was. So now I'm going to share it with you.

<!--more-->

Before you do this, you'll need an intermediary computer on which you can do the automated syncing.
This guide assumes that computer is running Linux/Unix. Basically, any always-on *NIX machine will
do the job. This machine is where all of the commands below should be run. In this example, I will
be creating a mirror of the source code of [Sequel Pro](http://www.sequelpro.com/), a very nice
MySQL database management app for Mac OS X. To do this with a different repository, just change the
paths/URLs where appropriate.

First, clone the repository to your machine using the `git svn clone` command below.

    git svn clone http://sequel-pro.googlecode.com/svn/trunk sequel-pro.git

For most repositories, the above command will take a long time. It's basically iterating over every
single revision in the subversion repository and committing them to the git repository. The good
news is that, once it's setup, subsequent syncs will _not_ take long at all since it will only have
to process the new revisions since last time. In the meantime, if you haven't already done it, this
would be a perfect time to login to your GitHub account and create a new repository into which we
can push all of this. Otherwise, go get a snack or something.

Once it's done setting up the repository locally, you can push it to GitHub by changing to the
directory to which you cloned the repository, adding a reference to the GitHub repository (a
remote), and then pushing your main branch to the remote repository on GitHub using the three
commands below.

    cd sequel-pro.git/
    git remote add origin git@github.com:jnrbsn/sequel-pro.git
    git push origin master

Now that you have the mirror setup, you need to setup a way to have it automatically synced with the
original subversion repository. If you're using Linux/Unix, you can do this with a simple shell
script setup up as a cron job. The script would look something like the one below. The script will
first change to the appropriate directory, then use the `git svn rebase` command to pull any changes
from the subversion repository, and finally, push the changes to GitHub.

    #!/bin/bash

    cd /path/to/sequel-pro.git/
    git svn rebase
    git push origin master

The easiest way to set this up as a cron job is to simply put the script in one of the
`/etc/cron.daily`, `/etc/cron.hourly`, etc. directories (make sure it's executable). Or you could
create an entry for it in your crontab (which I won't get into since it could take up it's own whole
post. Google itâ€” I'm sure you'll figure it out).

That's it. Happy mirroring!
