---
layout: post
title: Odds of Toyota accelerator stick vs. lightning strike
description: A comparison of the probability of your Toyota's accelerator getting stuck versus
  getting struck by lightning.
categories:
  - fun
  - statistics
keywords:
  - accelerator
  - lightning
  - probability
  - rant
  - recall
  - silly
  - toyota
---
Okay, so I just bought a Toyota a couple of months ago, and now every time I tell someone what kind
of car I drive, they always ask me if I've had any problems with my accelerator or they just make
some joke about it. Frankly, I'm sick of it. Just because you hear about a recall on the news, it
doesn't mean that it affects everyone that owns anything made by that company. In fact, I'm going to
go as far as to say that even if you have a Toyota that is supposedly affected by the recall, you
probably don't need to fear for your life&mdash; unless, that is, you're also afraid of getting
struck by lightning.

[According to the US National Weather Service](http://www.lightningsafety.noaa.gov/medical.htm), the
odds of someone in the US getting struck by lightning in their lifetime (based on actual statistics)
is about 1/6250 (or 0.016 %). So that means in order for it to be **more** likely that your Toyota's
accelerator will stick than you getting struck by lightning, the number of actual incidents of
accelerators sticking divided by the number of possible cars affected must be greater than 1/6250.
So we need to find out the values of those two numbers.

Now, [according to Reuters](http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE61104S20100202), "[...] a
Massachusetts-based consultancy, says it has counted 2,262 incidents of apparent unintended
acceleration in Toyota vehicles since 1999." So 2,262 incidents in about 10 years. We have our first
piece of data. But [according to Toyota](http://www.toyota.com/recall/pedal.html), no vehicles made
before 2005 are affected by the recall. So we can't really use the number vehicles being recalled as
our other piece of data. With 2,262 actual incidents, the number of possible cars affected needs to
be less than 14,137,500 (2,262 x 6,250) in order for the odds to be greater than 1/6250. Well,
Toyota sells about 2 million vehicles per year, which over 10 years, is definitely **not** less than
14,137,500. Even if not all Toyotas are affected, last I heard, Toyota had already recalled more
than 10 million cars that might be affected and that number is steadily getting bigger. So
basically, the number of actual incidents of accelerators sticking divided by the number of possible
cars affected is **not** greater than 1/6250.

My point is that if you own a Toyota, it's more likely that you'll get struck by lightning at some
point in your life than your Toyota's accelerator getting stuck. I don't know about you, but I'm not
worried about getting struck by lightning so I'm not worried about my Toyota's accelerator sticking.
And next time someone asks me if I've had problems with my accelerator lately, I'm just going to
smile sarcastically and say "No. Have you been struck by lightning lately?"

P.S. According to Toyota, my car is not one of the vehicles affected by the recall.
