---
layout: post
title: My blogging platform indecision (plus a new theme!)
description: Why I went from Blogger to WordPress to Tumblr and then back to WordPress.
categories:
  - blogging
keywords:
  - blogger
  - rant
  - review
  - thematic
  - theme
  - tumblr
  - wordpress
---
**UPDATE:** This post is not really applicable anymore since this is not a WordPress site.

Over the past several months I've been searching for the perfect blogging platform, a place to share
all sorts of things that need more than 140 characters. In my search, I've gone from
[Blogger](http://www.blogger.com/), to [WordPress](http://wordpress.org/), to
[Tumblr](http://www.tumblr.com/), back to Blogger, and now, as you can see, I'm back to WordPress. I
realize all of this switching back and forth is not a very good way to attract readers, and because
of that, I haven't been blogging very much at all. But now that I'm confident with what I have, I
will be posting a lot more. I'm not 100% sure exactly what this blog is going to be about yet, but
hopefully that will be become more clear (to you _and_ me) in the near future.

Also, now that I'm back to WordPress, I decided to develop my own theme. Here it is. You're looking
at it. It's based on [Thematic](http://themeshaper.com/thematic/) by Ian Stewart. I will be posting
more information about it (and where to download it) in the next week or two so stay tuned!

Even though I ultimately chose WordPress as my blogging platform, there are things that I liked and
disliked about each platform. Below is a brief description of what I think of each platform. Feel
free to leave comments letting me know what you think of each platform as well.

<!--more-->

### Tumblr

This platform is great for simple blogs. If all you're doing is posting text, photos, and videos,
Tumblr is great. But as soon as you start trying to edit the HTML of your posts, you start to get
real irritated. Tumblr's HTML [sic] editor is excruciatingly annoying. It strips (and sometimes
converts) pretty much everything except the most basic tags. It won't even let you make a `<table>`
element! However, one nice thing about Tumblr is the themes. Themes are about the only extendability
that Tumblr offers, but there are a lot of nice looking ones and they're pretty customizable
(although the user interface for doing so is not very good). But ultimately, as soon as I started
putting workarounds in my theme to _emulate_ tables with `<span>` elements and CSS classes, I knew I
needed something else.

### Blogger

I've actually used Blogger on and off for a long time. It has always been pretty customizable, but
it hasn't always been very easy to do so. And it has not always been very extendable. But now with
the new Template Designer and Gadgets, it's obvious that they're trying to be more like WordPress.
Unfortunately, Blogger has not always been as easy to use as I'd like it to be.

### WordPress

Not only does WordPress allow for more customization and extendibility than Blogger and Tumblr
combined, it has a simple, robust, and easy-to-use interface for managing all of it. There are
thousands of themes and plugins to choose from, and developing your own is really easy, mainly
because WordPress is a _very_ well-written application. (Most of my appreciation for WordPress came
from when I started messing around with developing my own themes and plugins.) On top of all that,
you can host it on your own server without really knowing anything about how to run a server. You
can install and upgrade all your themes, plugins, and even your entire WordPress installation right
from within the web interface! Isn't that neat?
