---
layout: post
title: eBay selling tips&#58; easy ways to maximize your winning bid
description: Some really easy-to-implement tips for getting the most out of your eBay auctions.
categories:
  - tips
keywords:
  - auction
  - bid
  - buy it now
  - ebay
  - how to
  - reserve
  - selling
  - traffic
---
A lot of people can't help but notice that I always have the latest and greatest gadget, smart
phone, and/or computer. They always ask, "How can you afford all that?" The answer is simple,
actually: I buy the new one and sell the old one on [eBay](http://www.ebay.com/). Sometimes I come
out ahead, sometimes behind, but it's almost always worth it. For example, it allows me to get a new
laptop every year. Unlike most people, instead of waiting until my devices are broken or almost
broken and definitely obsolete, I sell it while it's still almost new. Then I use that money to help
pay for the latest and greatest model. But unfortunately, none of this will do you any good if you
suck at selling stuff on eBay. So, with that said, here are some really easy to implement tips for
getting the most out of your stuff on eBay.

<!--more-->

### Don't use "Buy It Now" or reserve prices

"Buy It Now" is good for buyers but not for sellers, and when a seller uses it, it's like saying
"Yeah, I'm probably not going to get much more than this anyway, so it's is good enough for me."
Think of it this way: When you use "Buy It Now," and your item actually sells at that price, it's
extremely likely that the price would have gone higher, but unfortunately for you, you'll never
really know. Along that same line, people will argue that reserve prices are good for sellers but
not buyers. Well, it's debatable whether or not they're good for sellers, but most will agree that
they're not good for buyers. It's a huge turn off when buyers see the dreaded "Reserve not met," and
in my experience, it's much simpler, more forthright, and will ultimately lead to more bids when you
just set the starting bid at the minimum price your willing to accept for the item.

### The longer the auction, the more bids you'll get

This one is pretty self-explanatory. Try to keep yourself from being impatient and choosing shorter
listings, because it will not be as good as a longer one. As a rule of thumb, never use less than a
seven day listing. Traffic on the internet moves in weekly tides, and choosing a seven listing will
ensure that you reach every part of that tide. It's as simple as that really. There's even a ten day
option that's only $0.10 more, but from my experience, it's not really necessary.

### Time your auctions to end during high traffic times on eBay

Even though tons of people will bid on an item days before the auction ends, even more people will
impulse buyâ€” they get on eBay looking for a certain thing and look for auctions ending in the next
few hours. Admit it, you've done it. So obviously, timing the end of your auctions to coincide with
the times when the most people will be on eBay is beneficial. The highest traffic times on eBay are
in the evenings, especially Sunday evening, specifically Sunday evening between 7pm and midnight
(central time). I always list my items on Sunday evenings with a seven day listing. It's convenient
doing that way too because it's an easy routine to follow.

### Include lots of information and lots of photos

This one, I think, is even more self-explanatory. Just think to yourself when making your listing
"Would I buy this?" A lot of people are nervous about buying things on eBay, and including tons of
information and photos is going to reassure the buyer that they're getting (or not getting) what
they want. Also, you don't have to pay for more photos if want more than one. Because eBay let's you
include HTML in your listing, you can upload your photos to a free website like
[Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/), and then [embed](http://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_IMG.asp) them
in your listing. That way you can use your one free photo as the listing's main photo and then embed
as many as you want within the listing.

### Free shipping!

You'd be surprised how much this will help. People like seeing the word "free," and they're usually
willing to spend more because of it. In fact, the extra money you'll inevitably get from offering
free shipping will almost always pay for the cost of the shipping. I know it's not really logical,
but hey, people are rarely logical.
