---
layout: post
title: Some thoughts on Mac OS X Lion Developer Preview &#35;1
description: Likes, dislikes, and other thoughts on the first developer preview of Mac OS X Lion.
categories:
  - mac
  - review
keywords:
  - lion
  - mac os x
---
**UPDATE (07-23-2011):** Now that Mac OS X Lion is out, I've written **[an up-to-date
article](http://jnrbsn.com/2011/07/switching-from-spaces-to-mission-control)** with my thoughts on
the final version of Spaces/Mission Control.

Last week, I downloaded the first [Mac OS X Lion](http://www.apple.com/macosx/lion/) Developer
Preview. In this post, I've shared some things I liked, some things I disliked, and some things I
just thought were interesting. This is by no means a complete list of everything that's changed in
Mac OS X Lion. It's merely a summary of what I have to say about it after having used it for a week.

<!--more-->

> I apologize in advance for not including any screenshots, but I'm sure if you
> [Google it](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=mac+os+x+lion+screenshots), you'll find plenty of examples of
> what I'm talking about.

### Likes

**The Dashboard is now a Space.** Instead of the Dashboard being it's own app, it's now integrated
into Spaces. They made it it's own Space right before Space #1 (more on Spaces below). Sometimes,
when you combine two apps into one, it can turn out not so good, but I think this is a good change.
I don't use the Dashboard very much right now, but I could see myself using it more now that it's
integrated into Spaces, which is a tool that I use quite a bit.

**You can apply Finder view options to sub-folders.** When you open up the "Show View Options"
window in the Finder (either by right-clicking or by using the "gear" menu), there's a new option
called "Apply to sub-folders." Previously, you could only apply view options to one folder or set
default options for all folders.

**Version control is built-in to seemingly every document-based application.** This is a feature
that I probably won't use very much, because I use things like [Dropbox](http://www.dropbox.com/)
and [Git](http://git-scm.com/) for all my version control needs. However, I could see it being very
useful especially because it's built-in to the apps and not a separate system.

**The new iCal UI is very nice.** I used iCal as my primary calendar program at work, and I already
really like it. So saying that I like the new interface better is really saying something.

**The new Mail UI is much easier to use.** It's about time someone came up with a different type of
layout for a mail client. I really like the two column layout without the mailbox list, but that
doesn't let me browse through various sub-folders I might have. However, this can be remedied by
dragging your folders to the favorites bar. The threaded messages are also nice.

**Spotlight has live previews!** If you don't use Spotlight, you're missing out on one of the best
features of Mac OS X (`command+tab` is the most useful keyboard shortcut you'll ever learn). If you
_do_ use Spotlight, get excited, because it's about to get a lot more awesome. In the new Spotlight,
when you arrow up and down through the results, it shows live previews for documents, images,
dictionary definitions, and who knows what else.

### Dislikes

**Two finger scrolling on the trackpad is backwards.** Right now, when you move two fingers in a
downward motion on your trackpad, it scrolls down, and when you move them in an upward motion, it
scrolls up. Well, now it's the other way around. And guess what? There's no setting to revert back
to the old way. Just the fact that they changed this with no way to revert back is annoying, but
honestly, after using it like that for a few hours, I started to get used to it and it kind of made
more sense to have it that way, especially if you've ever used an iPad, iPhone, or pretty much any
multitouch device. But it's still annoying that they changed it.

**Spaces lost a dimension.** Currently, Spaces are arranged in a two-dimensional grid. You can move
up, down, left, and right through your Spaces and you can have as many rows and columns as you want.
Well, in Mac OS X Lion, Spaces are one-dimensional. They're arranged in a single row, and you can
only move left and right through them. It's really annoying if you're used to switching between
Spaces rather than switching between apps. Also, there's no way to tell what Space you're currently
in like you can do with the menu bar icon. I'd have to say that this is my least favorite change in
Mac OS X Lion. I feel like going from a two-dimensional layout to a one-dimensional layout is kind
of a step backwards.

**The new animations are sometimes annoying and almost always unnecessary.** This kind of reminds me
of the desktop effects in [Gnome](http://www.gnome.org/). Some are nice. Some are annoying. The big
difference is that, in Gnome, you can enable/disable individual animations.

**You can't remove the Launchpad icon from the Dock.** Yet another icon you can't remove from your
Dock. They never forced the Dashboard (similar) icon on us so why this one? Also, I was unable to
find any keyboard shortcut for the Launchpad.

**The new Address Book UI is atrocious.**  It doesn't even seem to try to follow
[Apple's own Human Interface Guidelines](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/UserExperience/Conceptual/AppleHIGuidelines/XHIGIntro/XHIGIntro.html).
It's ugly, inconsistent with the rest of OS, and never really needed to be completely redesigned.
It's a good thing that people usually access their address book data from other apps, rather than
using the Address Book app directly.

### Other thoughts

**Most apps have a full-screen view.** This is another feature that I probably won't use, but it
might be nice for training, demonstrations, presentations, etc.

### In conclusion

Apple is constantly making changes that I dislike at first, but it usually doesn't take me long to
get over it. I'd say that for now, the things I like outweigh the things I dislike, but just barely.
Interestingly, I don't remember disliking any changes made in Leopard or Snow Leopard. But it's
still very early in the game. This is just the first of many developer previews to come.
